In IT, vulnerabilities are inevitable.
No matter how hard we try,
there will always be weaknesses or flaws in software,
operating systems, and networks.
But it's not always a bad thing.
Most vulnerabilities are minor or the path to exploit them is long and difficult.
You need to pay attention to know what vulnerabilities need to be fixed right away,
and which ones can maybe wait.
Before you dive into vulnerability management,
let's review the definition of a vulnerability.
If you recall, NIST defines a vulnerability as a weakness in an information system,
system security procedures, internal controls,
or implementation, that could be exploited or triggered by a threat.
But what does this really mean?
You need to ask questions as part of the vulnerability management process,
to understand what actions you should take.
These questions include: where do you find vulnerabilities in IT and in the world?
What do they look like?
How do you know if there are problem?
What should you do about them?
To answer these questions,
you follow the vulnerability management process,
which is actually rather simple.
It starts with identifying the vulnerability,
analyzing it, and then taking some action.
Identification is just knowing that something could be a problem.
Analysis is the decision what to do about it,
and taking action is implementing that decision.